Fuck! Today was such a cunt, fuck her in the mouth. The fucking hardest day, fuck I've ever had since I've been here. The fucking hardest, most horrible [day], fuck. At five in the morning they started storming our place where we sleep. Right next to us the 'degrees' started, fucking hell. Boom, boom, boom. It was just a cunt in general, Lyocha. It was just a cunt, fuck it. Right next to...
...a cunt, fuck it. Right next to my fucking trench where I sleep, fucking "degrees" started exploding.
Fucking shit!
After that we drove to a firing position, fucking to finish it off. We arrive, we dig fucking trenches. Two or three self-propelled guns arrive.
Aha!
Fuck, shit, a birdie spotted us, fuck! And there's an excavator shovel digging at us. The big trenches are dug with an excavator shovel. But human, human trenches... Well, I always dig by hand for myself. 
Aha!
Yeah, I was fucking tired there digging.
Aha!
Yeah, I was fucking tired digging there. Birdie sighted the excavator shovel, fuck! When they started, fuck, shooting us with a "152" (hundred and fifty-two), we just got away, fuck again. We're sitting in a bunker. We were just sitting there. The commander says, "Go back there, fuck!". What, we have to go there and finish it off. We get there. They started shooting at us with two guns, fuck. Fuck your division! We fucked out of there, fuck. Just...
That's a controller. The controller's already been bought by you. You need to fuck off from there, fuck.
Fuck, I told him right away....
Fuck, I told him right away we've been spotted, fuck. Why the fuck are we going there now. We're in a fucking cunt and what are we going there for? And well, shouldn't we go now? Is this the first time we've been shot at? They started shooting at us so hard.... At us with fire. We fucking fucked off from there on foot, fuck. We were escorted by fire. In short, we were just fired on heavily for about forty minutes, fuck.
Counter battery warfare is in full swing everywhere today.
Fuck, what the fuck was it banging there with you guys?
You know, shit like that all day long.
...such fucking bullshit. I can't. It's fucking. You can't describe it. You just can't describe it, fuck. It's... This fucking artillery, all fucking, of course. Fucking, indeed. 
Uh-huh.
Who knows. I hear the explosions from the other side. Yeah, yeah, they flew in, fuck. And all that fucking bullshit. How I get over it, I don't know. I don't know how I'm gonna fucking survive, at least.
...at least fucking survive.
