So tell me, what's new there, how's it going? 
Our guys are going crazy in the front line of defence. They're preparing for the worst.
Why? 
Well, they're getting bombed every day, fuck. Every day, just fuck. In short. 
got to the guys there, to the front line of defence, for fuck's sake. And now they're all there, one, fuck, all grandfathered in already, fuck. Two, fuck, they're like rabbits in their burrows, get it? If something was whistled somewhere, that's it, fuk, fuk, fuck. They're already [XXX]. The rabbits will envy them, fuck.
The rabbits will envy them, fuck.
The boys have grown old, yeah?
I mean, with them there, the cuckoo's driving (they're fucking crazy there), so you understand. They're there already, damn, everything there.... Well, the cuckoo, I mean, drives. 
Just imagine for a second, fuck, 24 on 7, fuck, you're, fucking, just bombed out, fucking. Where they are, fuck, there, fucking, fierce fighting going on, yeah.
There you go, fuck, who are they, what are they doing there, you know? Maybe at night, fuck, they're fucking fighting with us. During the day, fuck, they're like peaceful people driving a car. You can't trust anybody here at all right now. Not at all. A granny can go, fuck....
Not at all. A granny can, fuck, go with the pies, fuck, fuck. Do you understand what I'm, [saying]? Fuck.
Well, yeah, yeah.
And at night, fuck, it's a colonel, fuck, a reconnaissance officer in the artillery, fuck.
Yeah, but I mean, that means there's no offensive operations from our side, well, from Russia's side.
And the point? They're buried. When you get there, you get fucked out of a trench. 
What do you mean, buried? Are they in the ground? 
Yeah, these people, fuck, have been fighting for 8 years, fucking, preparing for this war, fucking. They have such positions there, you get fucked, fuck. Hitler....
They have such positions there, you get fucked, fuck, Hitler would have been jealous.
That is, you have to make it so that they stay underground there.
Call Volodya, tell [him].
Ha-ha-ha. A strong wish it would be [ххx].
Just so you understand, damn it: With us pilots are afraid to fly, fuck. Either their own people shoot them down, fuck, or foreign people, fuck.
