I can't help but ask you. "Special military operation," news coming from Solidar. - The first in the new year, the most exciting political broadcast. Issues that are important for everyone. - "...And in the fate of Russia". Interview of the President on the course of the special military operation and the state of the economy. Again, they are already preparing another package of sanctions against us. What does Putin mean by these words, "I will put it so nicely." Right now and only with us. Good evening.
Good evening. In the first working week of the new year, the President held a meeting with members of the government. They talked about the main areas of the country's development, including social support for residents of Russia's new regions.
Vladimir Putin also thanked the ministers for their efficient work last year, thanks to which none of the gloomy predictions of our opponents came true.
However, in addition to the successes, the President also highlighted some shortcomings in no uncertain terms. 
The times are ever...[now.]
...shortcomings. Times are tense now, you have to act quickly. And yes, part of this meeting was actively discussed afterwards. It is about the dialogue between Putin and Deputy Prime Minister Manturov. But it's important to understand that we witnessed a moment, although quite emotional, that worked. Now we can all get a better idea of how closed presidential meetings work. 
On the line is Novo-Ogaryovo. Everyone take your seats. Deputy Prime Minister Manturov has taken his seat in advance. And since the report to Putin was pending, he repeated the key statements. [This is] The president's first meeting with the government in the new year.
"Dear colleagues, good afternoon." Manturov's first report on...
The first report from Manturov on the production of new aircraft under the sanctions. The plans are extensive, for many hundreds of units. However, it has turned out that the factories do not yet have firm contracts. Putin urged haste: "Long. Too long. The companies need to understand their prospects, their orders. They need to hire workers. They need to maintain or expand production capacity. Do you understand? There is no order even for the 23rd year." 
"In general.
"In general, for all our enterprises for this year - and the Ministry of Defense has confirmed the figure - all capacities are set up both for the current year and for next year."
"Denis Valentinovich, as long as there are no passports, which you said yourself, but there are none, and as long as there are no firm contracts, they have no idea what to do. Long, too long. Please, I beg you, speed up this work. Well, none, there are no contracts in the companies."
"Well, none, there are no contracts in the companies for the 23rd year. Do you understand, what is there to say?"
"Vladimir Vladimirovich, we have contracts both for the Ministry of Defense and for the civil sector, for aircraft, as I reported. We have everything prepared."
"Denis Valentinovich,"
"Everything prepared."
"Denis Walentinovich, Denis Walentinovich, you have prepared everything, but no contracts.
I tell you, let me [tell you] now, after we finish the meeting, why do we start a quarrel with you? What do you answer me? I know there are no contracts in the companies."
"I know there are no contracts in the companies. That's what the directors told me. Why are you making such nonsense anyway? When will there be contracts? That is what I am talking about. The directors tell me that there are no contracts. And you have everything prepared, well. When will..." 
"I can..."
"When will there be passports? When will there be contracts? Those are the questions that need to be answered."
"As far as the passport for the 63 aircraft that I just reported on, that was signed today..."
"I proposed the signed order today. Strictly according to your instructions. As for the other passports, this will be done during the quarter." 
"So that within a month, I beg you, within a month everything must be done. And actually, quarter of any. What are we talking about? We don't understand under what conditions we live.  I'm asking you to get this work done within a month. Okay? (=Good?=Is that clear?)
"We will try to do the best we can."
"We will try to do the best we can with our colleagues in the economic block. Thank you."
"No, don't try to do the best possible, but please do it within a month. It has to be done within a month, not later. All right?"  
"All right." 
"Do you understand why I'm talking about this? You said we would do it in the very near future. What's in the very near future? Well, it should be clear and obvious. But I'm not just saying that, am I? The directors of the companies say, no....
"The directors of the companies say there are no contracts. Well, okay. Let's talk some more."
According to our information, the conversation between the President and the Deputy Prime Minister took place soon. And Putin's press secretary Peskov has also stated that the public dialogue that took place was perfectly fine - it was a normal process. All the more so because Putin is generally very satisfied with the Cabinet of Ministers after last year's results. A wave of sanctions fell over the country, but the economy withstood everything.
"None of what our adversary predicted for us..."
what our adversary predicted for us has come to pass."
According to the year's results, inflation was below forecasts, and many sectors of the economy ended the year with strong gains, such as construction.
"It was one of the best in our history. In terms of residential construction, it's probably the best year ever."
There is a need to maintain a good pace in the economy overall and eventually achieve growth in the most important indicator for people.
"Real wages and incomes of people, as well as measures of social support, especially for families with children, ensure[s]...
"[...Social support measures,] especially for families with children, ensured a further reduction in poverty and inequality." 
The new regions of the country also need to be brought quickly up to the nationwide standards. 
"The most acute issues in life need to be resolved now. I understand that the situation in the new subjects [=areas] is difficult, that fighting is still going on in some areas, that peaceful life has not yet been restored everywhere, and that people's security is not yet guaranteed. Of course, all these factors must be taken into account. But all this is not a reason to pause."
"[But all this is not a reason to]... pause and postpone the solution of the most pressing problems until later."
The same minimum wage has been set in the new areas as in other regions, and the same benefits are being introduced. Over 14 thousand families have already received maternity benefits. Of course, this is very important. No one has cut the money. And people's standard of living must rise. 
On Friday, Vladimir Putin came to Ufa to say goodbye to the first president of Bashkortostan, Murtaza...
...with the President of Bashkortostan Murtazua Rakhimov, who led the republic for 20 (=twenty) years. And as the President noted, he played a very important stabilizing role at a crucial stage of Russian history, when the Soviet Union collapsed. But even today, the residents of Bashkortostan are behaving courageously and responsibly, defending the sovereignty of Russia and our people in the Donbass, Kherson Oblast and Zaporozhye. 
The President himself gave such an assessment to the people of Bashkiria during our interview with him.
...During our interview with him, which was recorded before his departure from Ufa. However, the questions during the interview were not only related to Bashkiria. We are now showing the whole thing for the first time. Take a look at the whole story.
That's why I allow myself to say...
"Therefore, I take the liberty of saying XXXXX [in Bashkir]." 
In Bashkir, Putin wishes success in the development of the republic.
"In Bashkiria, our entire Russia is reflected like a drop of water.
With its diversity of culture, religions, languages, with friendship among peoples. We will all follow your example and appreciate what Russia has achieved over hundreds-hundreds of years."
"Therefore, I take the liberty of saying [XXXXX] [in Bashkir]." 
In Bashkir, Putin wishes success in the development of the republic.
"In Bashkiria, our entire Russia is reflected like a drop of water.
With its diversity of culture, religions, languages, with friendship among peoples. We will all follow your example and appreciate what Russia has achieved over hundreds and hundreds of years."
"...Russia [has] achieved over hundreds and hundreds of years. Russia is an absolutely unique place on Earth. Simply unique. Its uniqueness lies in the fact that a huge number of nations, nationalities, peoples, languages and cultures are concentrated here. But the uniqueness of Russia was that for centuries, almost a thousand years, there was this fusion of peoples and different ethnicities..."
"...and different ethnic groups lived harmoniously. There is nothing like it in the world.  Bashkortostan, where we are, is the best example of that. 112, yes? Peoples and nationalities. 112." 
At the time, Murtaza Rakhimov headed the republic and had his own vision of the region's development.  In the 1990s, he prevented the liquidation of collective farms and state farms and relied on domestic resources. 
Today we process milk, buy meat, buy what we have....
We buy meat. What do we have, a Russian mentality worse than European or American? Today we have to work. 
"The republic has lived under his leadership for almost 20 years, recovered from the well-known tragic events of the collapse of the Soviet Union and achieved a great deal. In a very difficult and decisive period of Russian history, he played a significant, visible and positive role."
Mintimer Shaimiev, the former head of Tatarstan, and current head of state Rustam Minnikhanov also came to Ufa to bid farewell. The two republics have always had and continue to have a special relationship.
I know what internal competition between Bashkortostan and Tatarstan.
And to compete and to consult. We have lived amicably and always found understanding. The two republics are huge.
The impetus for the development of the republic and the city of Ufa itself was also given by the former head of state...
...was also given by the former head of state, the president of Bashkortostan, Murtaza Rakhimov.
But the most important thing in the 1990s and early 2000s was not even the economy, but maintaining interethnic peace in the republic at such a difficult time for all of Russia.
At that time we were like a boiling cauldron. The country seemed to have disintegrated. That was the dream of the West. 193 large and small nations united the great Russian people. In reality, the God unites.
...unites the God. That is why our anthem says. We sing, we sing, we sing all at once. Our country protected by God, Fatherland.
Central Spiritual Administration of Muslims of Russia is located in Ufa.
I am very glad that everything is developing so actively.  As you said, in 2000 there were 16 mosques and now there are a thousand.
...Thousand.
1,200 in Bashkortostan alone.
This speaks for the development of our traditional religions, including traditional Islam.
One region that is important for the country has received special attention all these years. One of Putin's first working trips was precisely to Bashkortostan.
Hello!
Hello!
Hello! What is your name ?
I love you! My name is Rinald. Give me your autograph.
Julia Nikolaevna... still... Everything is ready for the grade 4. Thank you.
"Sabantui", the folk festival of the Bashkirs and Tatars.
Look at the visor.
Symmetrical.
Are you ready to support at the state level our brand...
...to support our brand "Bashkir honey" and promote it not only within the country, but also at the international level?
What are you and I doing now? I now say publicly in front of the camera that it is a great product, I recommend it to everyone. I tried it myself, I am very satisfied. 
He didn't just try honey.
In 2015, the largest international summits of BRICS* and SCO** will be held in Ufa. A spacious...
...BRICS and SCO. A spacious and cozy yurt where the politicians held their talks. And such important events are always a strong impetus for the development of the whole region. The most important meetings took place one after another in the capital of Bashkiria. 
And when is that? 
And that is right after. The press goes, we confirm the agenda and make a speech. 
The work schedule continues, so there is half an hour for questions. I suggest that we do not waste time. 
Half an hour to answer questions? You have lost your mind. 
The Republic did it in the 1990s....
The Republic managed in the 1990s and 2000s not only to maintain important enterprises, but also to modernize them and start a number of new factories. 
Can't we revive this tradition? To reward that...
Let me just give you a kiss. Congratulations, everyone. 
The Republic's dedicated entrepreneurs are finding their own interesting solutions, even in the face of today's harsh Western sanctions.
"Aibat Hallyar", a Bashkir fast food cafe. 
Sorry, what's the name of it? 
"Aibat Hallyar."
Sorry, what's the name of it? 
"Aibat Hallyar."
I heard, "The Ipad is free". I think, "Well, how! What a good project! We'd all love to be a part of it."
Yes, yes, "Aibat Hallyar" translates to "It's going well." So it's an answer to the question, "How's it going?"
I am one hundred percent sure that replacing foreign owners and producers will lead to better services for our citizens. One hundred percent sure. That's very interesting...
...very interesting and delicious. So I will be happy to order something. I will be happy to order something. Don't you ship it? No? I will ask.
So far we ship it only within Ufa, but we can send it to you in Moscow. 
Oh, and the kystybyj is ready! This is [XXX] love. 
We also have people who are building. Young people are building. We have a very high pace of construction, the numbers speak for themselves. People in Bashkortostan are very proud of their republic, not only of its natural beauty. We can be proud of our appearance now....
...We can now be proud of our appearance of our villages and cities. But we want to have even more reasons for our pride, and that is why the head of the republic has a whole list of appeals to the president for the development of the region. Putin has already supported many projects. Since these photos appeared, tourism in Bashkiria has also boomed. Since then, thousands of visitors from different regions flock here every winter. 
Don't take pictures, get on your skis!
Don't take pictures, get on your skis!
Beloretsk and Abzakov ski resorts now have good infrastructure. There is never a problem with snow here either. What's more, it snowed so much in early January that you could even judge the extent of the snowfall from the window of the presidential plane. It is now minus 15 degrees in Ufa and there is certainly wind blowing at the airfield, but Putin did not refuse a short interview.
I ask for [pardon]...
...a short interview.
I beg your pardon! It's just that Bashkiria is my native republic. I was born here. And that's why I wanted to...
Where were you born?
In the town of Beloretsk. Nearby is the Abzakovo ski resort. You skied there in the early 2000s.
I skied with pleasure. I would like to do it again. It is a beautiful place.
By the way, there are a lot of tourists there now, right after your visit.
Great.
I would like to ask you this. At a meeting with the head of state of the republic, you said that this is a special region. Could you perhaps explain in more detail what....
...Could you perhaps explain in more detail what you meant by that? 
Well, this is... There is no need to invent anything here. Let's start with the fact that since their voluntary entry into the Russian Empire, the Bashkirs have also voluntarily taken upon themselves a special mission, the mission of protecting the external borders of the common Fatherland, the border guards. During the Patriotic War of 1812, Bashkiria deployed almost the entire...
...Bashkiria put almost the entire male population over 15 years of age on horses, armed them and sent them to fight the enemy. No less courageous and heroic behaved the inhabitants of the republic during the Great Patriotic War. Therefore, it is not surprising to me that even today the republic is behaving just as responsibly in carrying out tasks within the framework of a special military operation to protect our people in the Donbass, Kherson region and Zaporozhye.... 
...behaves just as responsibly. On the one hand, it is warm and cordial to the people participating in the war operations and their families, and at the same time it is statesmanlike. And, among other things, Ufa, the capital of the republic where we are now - this also happened historically - has always been one of the most important and significant centers of Russian Islam. It is an enlightened, creative...
...creative and highly respected Islam in the Islamic world, which is at the same time patriotically oriented and focused on interaction with all other traditional denominations in our country. In this sense, we can say that Bashkiria has always played a particularly significant role in the life, history and destiny of Russia.
I can't help but ask you just now about the particular military operation you mentioned. News from Solidar is arriving.
...you mentioned. News from Solidar is arriving. Overall, how do you assess the dynamics of the special military operation? 
The dynamics are positive. Everything is developing according to the plan of the Ministry of Defense and the General Staff. And I hope that our fighters will please us more than once with their combat performance. 
And the last question. You are again preparing a new package of sanctions against us, but the situation in the economy, at least visually, everything seems to be that we are holding everything, so to speak. Is that really the case?
The situation in the economy...
...is holding everything, so to speak. Is that really the case?
The situation in the economy is stable. More than that, it is even much better than what not only our opponents, but even we predicted. I would like to reiterate that all macroeconomic indicators show this. As I said in a recent meeting with the government, one of the most important indicators is unemployment, which is at a historic low. Inflation is lower than expected. It has, which is particularly important, a trend toward ...
...importantly, a trend to decline. I think it could go down from the current 11.9% to 5% after the results of the first quarter of this year. And that is a very important indicator for ensuring a decent standard of living for people and securing their real incomes. Industrial production, agriculture and construction are also on the rise.
...Agriculture and construction [are on the rise]. Therefore, overall, our situation is not only stable, but I think quite satisfactory. I'll say that cautiously, though not well. 
Thank you very much.
All the best.
Thank you very much.
The President flew away, but the residents of Beloretsk and Abzakov are now wondering, of course, when they can expect him for the promised new skiing in the Bashkir mountains. 
Was it cold? 
Very. The airfield, minus 15. Nevertheless, the conversation took place.
...the conversation took place.
Pavel, almost eight years ago, the leaders of Russia, Ukraine, Germany and France signed the Minsk Agreements, or Minsk-2, at the Minsk Summit. And all these years, this document was considered the only way to achieve peace in the Donbass. But Ukraine has never abided by any of its provisions. Recently, the former presidents of Germany and France bluntly admitted that their main goal was not to end the bloodshed....
was not to end the bloodshed and the civil war, but to give Kiev time to reinforce the army. What the political cynicism and duplicity of the West has led to, we can see now. 
Almost eight years ago, my cameramen and I were also working that night in Minsk. And now, after hearing the confession of Merkel and Oland, I understand, of course, that every picture taken at those talks, every word spoken there, is perceived quite differently. We remember and we watch the video.
We remember and we watch the video.
Yes, you can often hear that politics is a dirty business. Maybe. But not so much. Not to that extent.
...But not so much. Not to this extent. And where are justice and truth here? There is nothing but lies and hypocrisy. The entire so-called Western bloc, formed by the United States in its own image, is the empire of lies par excellence. 
When this speech of Putin was sounded in February, many paid attention to the words "empire of lies".
Yet it was hard to imagine that the key players in Western politics would themselves soon begin...
...of Western politics would themselves soon begin to admit publicly that they were lying.
Now the former French president who signed the Minsk agreements has backed Merkel's recent statement on the Minsk agreements, saying, "Yes, Angela Merkel was right. Since 2014, Ukraine has strengthened its military capabilities. Its army has become very different. It is better trained and better equipped. And the merit of the Minsk agreements is that they have given this opportunity to the Ukrainian army .
...Have given the Ukrainian army this opportunity.
Every picture that was taken that night, every word that was said here is now perceived very differently.
Four o'clock in the morning, negotiations continue.
Sixteen hours of negotiations, during which even the soldiers of the honor guard were staggering with fatigue. And here the leaders report the results.
The resolution of the conflict covers a wide range of issues, all of which have been considered [in this paper]. 
...All of which were considered in this paper. 
At the time, Poroshenko made a gesture as if he were being strangled. After all, at that time his troops were defeated by the Donbass militias and took revenge on ordinary people every day. 
Why are your troops bombing civilians, Mr. Poroshenko? Mr. Poroshenko, why are your troops bombing civilians?
The way out of the crisis lies in strict compliance with the Minsk agreements, and we must take steps [to resolve the conflict].
...And we need to take steps to resolve the conflict. The 2014 Minsk agreements were an attempt to give Ukraine time, and it has used that time to become stronger. The Ukraine of 2014-2015 is not modern Ukraine. As we saw in the Debaltsevo region, Putin could have easily won then. And I doubt very much that NATO countries could do as much as they are doing now to support Ukraine. It was clear to all of us that it was a frozen conflict, but just that.... 
...that it was a frozen conflict, but that's what gave Ukraine valuable time.
It just shows that we did everything right in terms of launching a special military operation. Why? Because it turned out that no one would abide by the Minsk agreements. The Ukrainian leadership also said that. But I still hoped that the other participants in this process would be sincere with us. It turned out that they, too, deceived us. The point was just to pump Ukraine full of weapons and prepare it for battle. But we see, yes. Apparently...
...to [prepare] for the fight. But we see, yes. Apparently we got our bearings too late, frankly. Maybe we should have started all this earlier, but we just counted on the fact that we could still reach an agreement within the framework of these peace agreements. Well, what do you say to that? It is a question of trust. How can you negotiate? About what? And is it possible to negotiate with anybody? And where is the guarantee? This, of course, makes us think about who we are dealing with.
Disgusting and undignified. It would have been better if she had sat there and not come out. By doing that, she ruined everything....
In doing so, she has undone everything that she has done for Germany and the European Union. We took her seriously and Russia took her seriously. But as you can see, we were wrong. She turned out to be petty, as petty as all the leaders in Europe today. 
We want to make progress on the Minsk agreements. Unfortunately, it is not enough so far. On the contrary, the situation has not improved at all in recent weeks.
And we know very well what the scenario will be,...
...what the scenario will be if we don't reach an agreement. And this scenario has a 
name: War. 
Even Poroshenko, who prayed the rosary during the negotiations, frightened with a big war and supposedly called for peace.
We must find together the only correct solution, on which nothing less than peace on the continent depends. I am confident that when peace comes to the Donbass, the Ukrainian citizens of all nationalities...
...Ukrainian citizens of all nationalities will live in harmony as before and communicate in the language that is best for them.
I needed these Minsk agreements to get at least 4.5 years to build the Ukrainian armed forces, develop the Ukrainian economy, and train the Ukrainian military together with NATO to create the best armed forces in Eastern Europe, 
...to create the best armed forces of Eastern Europe, built according to NATO standards.
It turns out that of the four leaders who signed the Minsk agreements, only the Russian one really wanted peace.
We argued about these points all night. What was the argument about? What is primary? And we still came to the conclusion that the primary issue is to solve the political issues that solve the security issues for the people...
...that solve the security issues for the people who live in the respective areas of the Donbass.
The integrity of Ukraine cannot be secured by threats and force of arms, but it must be secured. What we need is a real consideration of the interests and rights of the people of the Donbass, respect for their decision and agreement with them, as provided for in the Minsk agreements, on the main elements of the political system of the state. 
First. Amendments to the Constitution must be adopted. This is stipulated in the Minsk agreements. This must be done [in agreement with Donetsk and Luhansk]. 
...Agreements [stipulated]. This must be done in agreement with Donetsk and Luhansk. This is a question of principle.
Yes, and how can we be sure that the people who live in the region will not be grabbed and dragged to jail for separatism, for that thing, for that thing, for terrorism? A barrel full of prisoners can be stacked on them there. That's why you have to make these changes in the constitution. Everybody knows that. We also talked about this in Minsk for 17 hours.
It is not a secret agreement after all.
...talked about.
It is not a secret agreement after all. Open it on the Internet, it is there. 
Unfortunately, we do not see a direct dialogue so far. 
They refer to the fact that there is shooting from time to time on the line of contact. But that, who does not want to comply with the Minsk agreements, - for him is a very good, pardon my language, excuse. They themselves fired, they were responded to, and here, please, a shooting. So, what, you don't have to implement the Minsk agreements? 
The problem is that the representatives of the current Kyiv authorities do not even want to sit down with them at the negotiating table. And this is something...
...want to sit down at the negotiating table with them. And that is something that we cannot influence. Only our European partners and our American partners can influence it. And there's no reason to scare us with any sanctions. We have absolutely nothing to do with it. 
The European Union will be forced to take new measures and impose new sanctions.
Since the Minsk agreements have not been fully implemented, we will have to continue sanctions against Russia.
In order to get out of this situation in the best possible way, we need to push forward the path of implementation of the Minsk agreements.   
...Advance the path of implementation of the Minsk agreements. We have made every effort to put this into practice. 
The basis was and remains the Minsk agreements. 
This is simply becoming ridiculous. But we in Moscow cannot pass a Ukrainian amnesty law. Well, let me issue this decree. What will it be then?
Of course, Kiev has passed some laws. But when you read them, everything turns out to be profanation.
I ask them all, my colleagues, "On a permanent basis?" - "On a permanent,...
... "On a permanent basis?" - "On a constant, on a constant basis." I say, "Do you know that this bill has been passed for a total of three years? One year has passed." They all, "Yes?" I say, "Yes. Pyotr Alexeyevich, yes?" He says, "Yes." So really, honestly, it's almost straight talk.
We hear the same thing all the time every day. They repeat like a mantra that Russia must exert influence on southeastern Ukraine. We are exerting influence. But it is impossible to solve this problem with our influence on the southeast alone. You also have to influence the current official...
...influence the current official authorities in Kiev. And we can't do that. This is the way that our Western partners, the Europeans and Americans, should go. Because only they have a real influence on the current authorities in Kyiv. 
Why do they, excuse me, repeat every time that Moscow has something to fulfill? Everything that we should take care of, we have taken care of. Do they have to do something themselves?  
And so, year after year, the situation has only worsened. Kiev has even defiantly violated the economic clauses of the Minsk agreements and imposed a blockade...
...of the Minsk agreements [defiantly violated] and imposed a blockade on Donetsk and Luhansk. They have even stopped paying pensions to the elderly.
What does this have to do with them? Why don't you pay them? They are obliged by law to do so. No, they don't pay. So they cut off the Donbass from itself with their own hand. That is the problem and the tragedy.
The radicals took control and blocked all movement of people and goods. President Poroshenko tried to lift the blockade, causing a brawl and a shooting into the air. So he didn't cause anything...
...a brawl and a shooting in the air. So he didn't do anything. He himself issued a decree that he was joining the blockade and officially imposing it. 
How can you consider this territory and the people who live in this territory as your citizens and keep firing at them while civilians are suffering. After all, it is the civilian population that is suffering. Why do that when you should just stick to the implementation of the Minsk agreements. The longer and the further this goes on, the worse it is for? For Ukraine.
...for... for Ukraine.
There are many successful examples in the world that Kiev and the Donbass could follow. There is autonomy, for example, as part of Finland, the Aland Islands, there is autonomy in Denmark. People of different nationalities live within one state. But Kiev, which is ruled by the West, demonstratively relies on confrontation. 
The policy of separating Russia and Ukraine, of tearing apart two peoples and two states. Some in the West like that. Some are of the opinion that...
...in the West [like it]. Some think that rapprochement between Russia and Ukraine should not be allowed under any circumstances. That is why the current Ukrainian leadership is actively peddling this commodity, not unsuccessfully. 
The worst thing here is to fuel or try to fuel the conflict between Ukraine and Russia. If the Minsk agreements are implemented, I am sure that the situation will gradually normalize. 
The Minsk agreements are not being properly implemented. Nevertheless, can we...
Can we still expect a meeting of Normandy Quartet leaders in the near future? If so, when? 
The process is indeed very slow. But we have no other instrument than the Minsk negotiations and the Normandy format. What has prevented the so-called West from implementing the agreements reached in Minsk? I personally was told: well, under these conditions, and you would have signed everything if you were under these conditions.
...Under these conditions [would be]. But, listen to me, they signed it. They signed it! And they insisted that the heads of government of the two Donbass republics that were not recognized at the time sign it. Then one of them was killed, Zakharchenko, generally speaking. 
They killed a person and the head of government of one of the republics. And there is silence. Nobody seems to remember that either.
How do you think Russian-Ukrainian relations will develop under the new president? Thank you.
I don't know. It will depend on what policy the new...
...,what policy the new political leadership of Ukraine will pursue. We want and are ready to fully restore these relations. Let's look at least at the first steps.
In any case, we will continue the Minsk direction, we will go to the end.
We also want to give the new Ukrainian leadership a chance to get on a path that solves the problems instead of exacerbating them. The demand for social regulation is obvious. I think that [Mr. Selenskyj's election] is above all....
...I think that Mr. Selenskyj won the election so convincingly primarily on the basis of this demand. People in Ukraine are waiting for a solution to this problem. And if he has the political courage and the strength to follow through, I think he will establish himself as an honest politician who is able to enforce the decisions that have been made. But, of course, we also see certain fluctuations. 
We are not ready for a dialogue with the separatists.
We are not ready for a dialogue....
We are not ready for a dialogue with the separatists. We are ready to act according to the Minsk format. To continue relations, to cease fire.
When he was abroad, in Paris, in my opinion, yes, he said that he will not talk with the separatists, that is, with the representatives of these unrecognized republics. And then how is this problem going to be solved? There is not a single example in modern history of such conflicts being resolved without direct dialogue between the parties to the conflict. It is simply not possible. Moreover, the shelling by the...
Moreover, the shelling by the Ukrainian armed forces has increased. Now, during the campaign, it was said that it would stop.
In the Minsk agreements, there are withdrawals that we cannot afford. What am I supposed to do with it? I can't afford it. This was signed by a person who goes around shouting "Aj-jaj-jaj!". You know, I am Van Damme. We are in a certain balancing act. If I had three legs, they would have put me on three.
Is there any way that...
Is there any way that you can come to an agreement with Selenskyj? 
About what? 
About peace, about friendship.
Hope dies last. There is. But, unfortunately, he came from Paris and started talking about renegotiation of the Minsk agreements. This raises questions. 
Four years have passed since the signing. Everything has changed since then. Besides, it was not my team that signed, and we can change that.
And even the closest...
And even the closest confidants of Selenskyj told about their first meeting with Putin. The Russian head of state was maximally attuned to a dialogue. 
It was felt that he wanted to find a solution to this problem. The way I see it, it seems to me that we kind of screwed him badly. We promised one thing and did nothing. 
Merkel and Macron seem not to have noticed that Selenskyj was squirming in public while the importance of a diplomatic solution was being talked about.
of a diplomatic solution [was being talked about], ... a rigorous and consistent implementation of the Minsk agreements of February 12, 2015. 
Special status for the Donbass on a permanent basis. It is necessary, of course, to extend the validity of the agreement on the special status of certain regions of the Donbass. And finally, to give this norm a permanent character, as provided for in the Minsk agreements. 
We are concerned that...
We are concerned that the Ukrainian side says one thing to the press during official talks, but internally it says something else. Namely, it says, and I want to emphasize this, that it will not implement the Minsk agreements. 
At the same time, Russia has been repeatedly accused of not abiding by these agreements. This is simply nonsense. A theater of the absurd. They say black about what is white, and they say white about black.
When we ask our partners, including those from the Normandy format, what exactly...?
... what exactly is Russia not implementing in the Minsk agreements? And what do you think Russia should have done in the Minsk Agreements? There is no answer to that. They say it bluntly, we cannot formulate it. I am not joking, this is exactly the kind of dialogue. And what exactly are the LNR and DNR not implementing under the Minsk agreements?  No, they can't formulate it either. And yet they constantly demand from us in public their implementation. 
Minsk agreements, are they good or not?
...good or not? I think they are the only ones possible. So what is the problem? They don't want to implement it. Well, they don't want to implement it. They passed a law on indigenous peoples. They declared the Russians who live in this area, in their own territory, a non-indigenous people. 
Now the acting president is happily reporting that they are using "bayraktar." That is, an unmanned aerial vehicle. That is aviation. Which is strictly forbidden by the Minsk agreements and subsequent agreements.
... And subsequent agreements [is strictly prohibited]. And officials in Ukraine bluntly say we have deployed it and will continue to deploy it.
The acting president, he said recently that he doesn't like a single point of these Minsk agreements. Like it or not, you have to endure it, beautiful, you have to implement it. There is no other way.
Macron then found such an excuse why Selenskyj does not comply with the Minsk agreements.
President Selenskyj, President Selenskyj is "nervous as the head of a country that has 125,000 Russian military personnel on its border." (in French)
(in French)... 125,000 Russian military personnel [on its border]. So, yes, he is nervous. Secondly, when the Minsk agreements were signed, there was no such Russian presence on the border. And therefore.
France, which signed the Minsk agreements, even under President Macron, did not help implement them, but just freely interpreted the clear text.
See, this means that you and I understand all this, probably, very differently.
...You and I understand all this, probably, very differently. So, I already told you that when we met in person, I even showed and read out points nine, eleven and twelve of the Minsk agreements.
(continued in French)
It is not a democratically elected government. They are the ones who came to power through a bloody coup, with murders and arsons....
...by a bloody coup [have come to power], with murders and arsons and burning people alive. Here he is. And your Selenskyj is one of this team. So the dialogue presupposes that the interests of the other side are taken into account. Yes, they have put forward their proposals. But these separatists, as you call them, have answered. There is no answer. So where is the dialogue?
(continued in French)
Listen to me. Well, what you? You hear me well, don't you? Now you listen to me well, don't you? I tell you that these separatists, the so-called [separatists], have responded to these proposals. They have responded, but they are not being responded to.
At that point, it was clear: They are pumping Ukraine full of weapons and planning to throw them into battle against Russia.
Imagine that Ukraine is a member of NATO. So it will turn into a military confrontation between Russia....
...to a military confrontation between Russia and NATO.  Do we have to go to war with NATO? But I would also like to ask you. There is a second part of this question. Do you want to go to war with Russia? 
Russia has no choice but to recognize the DNR and the LNR and start a special military operation.
Now what about the Minsk agreements? Russia has insisted on their implementation for exactly seven years.
The Minsk agreements were killed long before yesterday's recognition of the Donbass People's Republics. Yes, of course.
...of the People's Republics of the Donbass [killed]. Yes, of course, now the Minsk agreements. They don't exist. 
And new revelations by former European leaders have only confirmed this: If Kiev had been given even more time, pumping weapons into this territory could bring completely unpredictable consequences for Russia.
Yeah, you can't argue with that. Well. The facts are clear. Paul, what are the President's plans for next week?
There's another business trip coming up.
The eightieth anniversary of the breaking of the siege of Leningrad. The President, of course, will be in St. Petersburg on that day. Hundreds of thousands of victims of the siege are buried in the Peskarjevskoe cemetery. The President's biological brother is also buried here.
Everything is forgotten, everything is erased. But we cannot allow anyone to erase that. And we will not allow that. 
The truth about these events is all the more important now, because... 
...about these events is all the more important now that the descendants and supporters of the fascists in Europe have raised their heads again.
This is the kind of person who today tears down monuments to the Red Army soldiers who liberated countries of Europe and European peoples from the Nazis.
Also next week, the President will hold a meeting with members of the Security Council. Meetings on the economic situation will also resume in the new year. Other events by the President are also expected.
Thank you, Pavel. At this point, I bid you farewell.
...Pavel. At this point, I will say goodbye to you. And after a short break we see the viewers in the studio of the program "Sunday evening".


