This is the program " The own truth ", good evening. We start with the statement made by our foreign minister in Turkey. Let's listen to it. 
The destructive line of the collective West, led by Washington, remains unchanged. There is no hiding the fact that China will be the next target when Russia is defeated, as they put it. And also every other country that...
...also any other country that dares to act independently. 
How can we stop these American plans? Meanwhile, Zelenski has declared in Warsaw that very soon there will be no borders between Ukraine and Poland. What is behind this declaration? And Vladlen Tatarsky has been murdered. What were the goals of those who ordered and organized this act of terrorism? We will talk about that in detail today. Let us...
Let us hear another statement from our President on our allies. Well, first of all, on Belarus. Let's listen to Putin.
Russia and Belarus are strengthening their defense and security cooperation and will continue to do so, as noted today. They are expanding their cooperation in the military-technical sphere. And this is certainly in the fundamental interest of our countries and peoples,...
...in the fundamental interest of our countries and peoples, that is very important in view of the difficult international situation. This is exactly the case today. 
Vladimir Vladimirovich, you remember that for many years we have heard from various experts that the Union State is, well, unclear, what kind of entity, what kind of meaning it has, it is stuck and so on and so forth. Here is the Russian President's statement. Military cooperation and our tactical nuclear weapons in Belarus. [Do you think that] people in the West really understand what is happening here? 
Do you think people in the West really understand what is happening here? 
Well, they are debating this issue. Not only that, they keep saying that Putin is bluffing, Russia is bluffing, in a word. 
In what sense is he bluffing?
He is bluffing in the sense that there will be nuclear weapons in Belarus.
And, [they think] that there won't be any? Do they think that there will be no weapons? Yes.
Well, in that sense that it is too much, is an exaggeration and so on. But you heard what Macron said in China, right? Well, it's not right, you can't have nuclear weapons outside of one state or another, right? 
Absolutely not!
...of one state or another, right? 
Absolutely not. No country has the right...
Let's not have a disagreement about what Macron said. I have Macron who made that statement. Let's listen to the French president.
France shares the desire that nuclear weapons be completely ruled out in the Ukraine conflict, that all international treaties on this issue be respected...
...that all international treaties on this subject be respected and that under no circumstances nuclear weapons be deployed outside the territories of nuclear-weapon states, especially in Europe. In this regard, everyone should be reminded of their responsibilities, especially Russia, which a few days ago announced its intention to deploy such weapons in Belarus, which is not in accordance with international law and the obligations it has assumed towards you and us.
What a gross attack on the USA!
...attack on the USA!
I think sometimes it may be that I am wrong....
And [attack] on Russia a little bit!
...Maybe I'm wrong, but sometimes it seems to me that they're just not up to speed. Maybe they really are out of the loop. 
No, so, you understand, I think that even after he was told about America, Lukashenko in particular, told about America, yes, he himself after that [said], so America is something completely different, what are you talking about. America is allowed to do everything. No, other countries are not allowed to do this under any circumstances. In that sense, of course, it's very revealing....
...sense, of course, it is very revealing how Selenskyj went to Poland, yes, to negotiate his union, his union state. 
It's also a very interesting story.... 
Very.
...We will talk about it in detail, as I said, yes. 
I'm getting ahead of myself, aren't I? Sorry.
Yes, get a little ahead of yourself, but let's keep the intrigue, yes. Well, they... Here... What I wanted to ask, Vladimir Vladimirovich. You understand that their actions... in reality, perhaps...
...that from the point of view of some experts on the formation of the Union State, their measures might not be very effective in reality, I don't know. They literally made a lot of sense. 
You know, they don't get it most of the time.
They don't get it.
So there are actually voices of some sober, individual experts who say, yes, we have driven Russia into an embrace with China by our actions. 
Absolutely right!
About Belarus, there is less....
...with China [driven]. Belarus is talked about less, but it is also mentioned. But, I say it again, this is rather an exception to the rule. For the most part, they do not make such a direct connection. The vast majority of them do not make such a direct connection. They think that Russia is a priori an aggressive power and should be punished in this way, as they write. Containment. 
This is a very strange story, because even if you look at what is happening, it is obvious that without these measures...
...that without these measures from their side, there would not be these steps from our side. This is a direct link. And both the Russian President and the Belarusian President are openly talking about it. They listen and move on. 
Roman, you understand that everything we do is an escalation. Everything they are doing is a normal development of events. We didn't even notice Macron, okay, going after the United States. He went after France on that when he declared that....
Macron [went] after France [in the process]?
Macron [went] after France. Yes, well, when they... 
Macron [went] after France [went] after France. Yes, well, when they made a joint statement with Xi that we are against any action by any state that leads to an escalation of the conflict in Ukraine. Sorry, but that from the mouth of the French President, who is supplying all these Caesars, his weapons to Ukraine, just sounds, well, excuse me, disingenuous and duplicitous. That is...
Well, that is why I say, Vladimir Vladimirovich, maybe they are out of touch. 
Well, Macron knows...
...they are not up to speed. 
Well, Macron knows that he supplies "Caesars." He certainly knows that. 
All right, so. Let's just... Just a second. Let's listen to Alexander Lukashenko some more. Yes, let's listen to Lukashenko. 
An effective defense and security system for the Union State has been created, with a regional grouping of armed forces and a unified regional air defense system functioning successfully. The measures taken to strengthen border security have...
...significantly improved the Union State's protection against international terrorism, uncontrolled migration flows, smuggling, arms, ammunition and drug trafficking, and illegal economic activities. 
And Russia's tactical nuclear weapons will appear on the territory of Belarus. 
That could be the case, yes.
And why could it, Mike? 
Well, so far, only the aircraft are being prepared.
No. Stop. For now... we're done for now. The president has given you a full schedule... 
...done for now. The President has given you a full timetable of our steps.
This will be at such and such a time, this will be at such and such a time. The repositories will be ready at such and such time. And it will appear there. But I get the impression that it doesn't bother you very much. And you do not even think about the fact that without your actions there would be none of our weapons in Belarus. 
Yes, it doesn't bother us much because we.... In the West, people wonder what this will bring Russia? That is, regardless of whether time passes.... 
That is, regardless of whether time passes or whether it is shortened by 10 seconds, there are still the same opportunities that exist in Russia itself, billion-dollar opportunities.
Can I ask you a question, Michael? 
Can I just cut to the chase?
I just have one question for you, please. Tell me, what do your bombs give you? 
Good question.
Yeah, I don't ask bad questions.
I wanted to answer this question. 
What does your presence give you, your bombs? What do you get from them being in Italy, in the Netherlands, in Belgium, in Germany? And in Turkey.  What's the point?
Oh, they are another thing!
Oh, they are another thing!  That's right, it's all, it's always all different. 
I will explain everything. First of all, I would like to explain the main position of the United States. 
Either they have joint use.
It is their interpretation that the placement.... It would be a violation of the Convention on the Non-Stationing of Nuclear Weapons if the U.S. were to give these states the weapons under their control, then it would be.... It would be a violation. That is the U.S. position. 
Good.
Good.
And the Netherlands, Germany, Turkey, Italy, and Belgium agree with the United States. 
Good.
[They] disagree with that interpretation because it is a matter of interpretation. France obviously disagrees. France believes that it does not matter whether under U.S. control or not, as long as U.S. nuclear weapons are on the territory of other [countries]....
What makes you think that France thinks that way? As far as I understand it...
He just said that it's....
No, Macron said it in a completely different way.
We were joking about it.
He said. Well, do you [Macron] want to do it again...? 
He said. Well, do you want to listen to Macron again? 
He said that nuclear weapons could not be used outside national borders. That's why he...
Yes. Did he say anything about your weapon? 
No. 
Oh, no, did he?
So the interpretation of France and Russia is the same. Well ...
I'd like to believe that.
You know, Michael, if only it were, right? But I promise you, you'll talk, Michael. You always talk more than anybody else. 
Yes, of course, yes. 
Yes.
...of course, yes.
Yes. And if Macron were to say that under no circumstances should you have nuclear weapons of some states on the territory of other states, and especially not in Europe, and I'm very concerned about Russian plans to put them in Belarus, and I simply demand that American weapons be withdrawn from Europe as well, then yes. But he is not saying that at all.
As far as I understand... That's how Vladimir Vladimirovich understood that he [indirectly] insulted America.
...That he was indirectly insulting America.
We're just kidding, we understand everything. Vladimir Vladimirovich, did Macron insult America? 
No, well indirectly, indirectly. He didn't know that, I'll say it again. But still, yes. It is an actual help.
Now, one moment, yes.
I would like to answer your question. Regarding the U.S. nuclear weapons on the territory of the five European countries, I also believe that these bombs, which are not missiles, these bombs have lost their utility. That made sense in the '50s, in the '60s, when they....
...In the '60s, when they were first.... they were put up.
Yes.
Right now, I don't see much sense in it. Just as I don't see much sense in deploying Russian nuclear weapons on the territory of Belarus. That is exactly what we have been talking about. Sergei Borisovich talked about it last time. This would enable both the U.S. and Russian sides to refrain from deploying nuclear weapons on the territory of Belarus after the deployment of nuclear weapons on the European continent .
...On the European continent [to renounce].
Really? Is our window of opportunity opening now? 
Well, theoretically it does. Because if we believe that it is not a violation of the convention, then logic suggests that Russia then has the same right. 
What does that have to do with America and logic? 
All right, there is just one more little thing, Sergei Borisovich. It remains to be seen until the United States declares that, as a gesture of goodwill, we have decided....
...to dispose of these bombs because we believe that these bombs are yesterday's news and there is no point in placing them anywhere. But, Michael, it is simply that even if your people sign the treaty on strategic offensive weapons, which are no longer bombs, but missiles, yes, they are trying to cheat here as well. 
And who suspended this treaty?
No, they are trying to cheat here as well. They did not dispose of the missiles that should have been scrapped under the Strategic Offensive Weapons Treaty for some reason,...
... not disposed of for some reason, but put them in storage and claimed that we had decommissioned them. We just have them in storage. We don't use them anymore. Consider them destroyed. 
Is that a violation of the contract? 
Do you think it is not a violation? 
It is again a question of interpretation.
That is correct, Sergei Borisovich, with both biological and chemical weapons. 
I will disagree with Michael in part, but some things I will support in all respects. 
Good.
So these bombs are basically obsolete, as they have been.
...The way they have been up to now. That is the 130 bombs in five countries. But...
Yes, they are, yes.
But, unfortunately, there is a modernization of these bombs. They are getting smarter, more compact, more powerful. That is true on the American side. 
Yes. And where are they now?
And also, they are being taught to fly.
Of course.
They are being trained to fly and to control lasers. So they are given a new, purely military meaning. And more than that, even in these exercises that are done on a regular basis. There's...
...that are conducted on a regular basis. That's where they practice dropping bombs from aircraft. Fortunately, there are no bombs mounted there yet. So to the extent that Russia is doing that, I'm personally not happy about that circumstance. No matter how you spin it, the tension inevitably rises. 
That is absolutely true.
Moreover, Russia has not indicated whether it will be bombs or some kind of warheads for some missiles, for example, "Iskander" missiles. Ultimately, it could be anything. And it could be fast enough....
And it could be fast enough because there were storage bases there. They're still available. You don't have to build them from scratch.
Of course.
They should just, yeah, just be refreshed, roughly speaking. 
Of course, that's the way it is.
That is, it can be pretty quick. But I liked it, and we should not be silent and ignore the initiative that the President of Belarus talked about. He... Because if Russia offered from time to time that we should withdraw our tactical weapons, America would withdraw its arsenal of these bombs [from five countries],... 
...America would withdraw its arsenal of these bombs from five countries, and Russia was ready to take its tactical weapons even beyond the Urals. There was such an idea, and the Russian president voiced it in the early noughties. Lukashenko went even further. He proposes that now we should get all the American [weapons].... 
We will get everything together.
...Yes, we will collect and dispose of everything. 
And dispose of it. 
We're going to dispose of it. We're not just going to take it out. 
What a good idea, isn't it, Michael? 
So, but how does that work against the grain, right? 
I support this proposal in every way possible. 
It's a good proposal, yes?
It's an excellent proposal.
It's a good proposal, yes?
It's an excellent proposal. We should not forget it and we should definitely turn it into some kind of official diplomatic initiative and put it into motion.
And in general, Sergei Borisovich, it would be great if there were no nuclear weapons at all, wouldn't it? If Russia had no nuclear weapons, can you imagine how fancy life would be? 
No, no, no, it's too early to dream about that, 
One second, one second. One second, one second.
It's too early to even dream about it. 
No, wait, let me finish. 
Yes, yes.
If Russia didn't have nuclear weapons, that would be great, wouldn't it, Felix? And if America...
...wouldn't it, Felix? And if America didn't have nuclear capabilities, the French, the British. Nobody in the world would have those nuclear missiles and bombs, that would be wonderful, wouldn't it? 
Yes.
That's what you call a rosy dream, because the combined power of the NATO bloc, if you don't take into account the nuclear arsenal, is many times greater than Russia's. And a very long time ago, they would have latched onto us like a pack. Well, you get the idea, ...
Well, you already understood whose pack. And what would you do with us? God forbid, they say. God forbid, because you have no credibility. Well, no credibility. 
Why... Why Germany doesn't have its own nuclear weapons, I don't think anyone in Russia has to explain. And why at the end of the Cold War any number of these weapons are stored as if exterritorially....
...how exterritorially stored, America doesn't need to explain either, it seems to me.
You do need to.
I think you have the right to place them, even if we don't like it, right? Why do you need Belarus when you have our former Königsberg, right? 
Oh, wait a minute!
Kaliningrad, which is much closer than Belarus. 
Oh, wait, not all at once. 
I... I just don't understand it. It's not. 
Thanks for the tip. 
I'm going to explain that. But I think that the people who are making the decisions, 
...the people who are making the decisions are actually arguing exactly the way you are. Let's take a break and come back to this studio in a few minutes to continue the conversation with our guests. 
"On Champions. Champions App. To bet on the games of the champions."
This is the program " The own truth ". We continue to talk with our guests about the situation in Ukraine. Vladimir Nikolaevich, you see, Naryshkin met with Lukashenko again. And Naryshkin told him in detail....
...told him in detail about the general situation in the post-Soviet space and talked in great detail about Georgia. As far as I understood, according to Naryshkin's words, they are now pushing the Americans to Georgia so that it [Georgia] opens a second front. Do you fundamentally believe that this is the moment Ukraine is waiting for now, and that the Americans are acting in their interest, or do they rather not expect it? 
Let's make two points on the previous topic, just two points in a nutshell. Here...
...just two points in a nutshell. Here's Macron's statement. You know, there are two variations here: Either he has a memory lapse, or he didn't learn history well, even though his wife is a teacher. Yes? That's the first variant.
No, he is an excellent student, I think. 
Well, then the second variant. You know, probably he considers the European countries de facto America's territory after all. De facto. Not de jure, but de facto. 
Well.
And try it now. At least the government of one of the five countries, yes, has raised the question: Folks, but this old stuff....
...Yes, raised the question: Folks, but this old stuff, as Michael says, can't they sweep it out? They're going to sweep away. Just will sweep you away. And the government and everything else. Erdogan is putting up a kind of resistance. Independence in national interests. And he is already thinking how to sweep it [the old stuff] away. Erdogan said the door of the U.S. ambassador is closed. But there is an interesting issue. 
But you know, Vladimir Nikolaevich, you have to share. 
But there is a... [matter]. 
It is... It's all these... these Eastern games. 
I know it's all politics. But if he officially...
But if he officially, publicly, after the International Criminal Court-that mockery that issued the arrest warrant for Vladimir Putin-says, and I invite Putin to April 27, yes, and I tell you, as someone who has been involved in elections more than once, and you have been involved in elections, you are very careful in the run-up to elections about inviting those who come from the outside. And what does that mean? He is sure that this visit will have an added attraction for him.
...This visit will have an added attraction for him. Yes. And therefore...
Could be, could be. But, Vladimir Nikolaevich, forgive me, for God's sake, I interrupt once again. But I would be careful with this invitation from Erdogan because....
I know. Your attitude, like mine, is quite critical. In terms of...  
That's, okay, my attitude. I just [know]... I just know that they have invited guests in this way very often, very often in history. Well, not only them. And the Persians did it, too.
And Griboyedov is the proof of that.
...And the Byzantines did the same thing. You know, this is such a common oriental story.
The statement itself... The statement itself...
...is such a common Oriental story.
The statement itself... 
To visit, and then - once, and they solved all the problems.
His statement... Such a statement... And the statement itself either adds to the support or reduces it.
That's right.
In Turkey, the Russians and Vladimir Putin are treated quite well. This visit...
Our ambassador was shot there.
I would disagree, of course. Yes. But good.
Let's move on [...], but to your question. The question is not only about Georgia. Ukraine has long been ready to fire and participate in this issue concerning Moldova. And about that...
...regarding Moldova [for a long time].
Yes.
And about that, so to speak, Moldovans themselves, changing the government, ready and so on, with the help of Romanians, Americans. Biden did not meet Andu by chance, he blessed her. Forward. That is, um.
Some remarkable results of a poll have now been published there. Moldovans have the most confidence in the two presidents: the Romanian and the Russian. 
Yes, yes, yes. There's a little bit of a gap there. Yes. And everybody else is down there. Yes, that's true. So in this case, they're using...
...[in this] case, they use the whole tactic in exactly the same way. It's about putting small fires around Russia so they can break it up. Exactly the same tactics are being used against China. We will see conflict all around there, and then only the conflict with China itself will begin. Now to the big project. I... We have already discussed this issue on the occasion of Selenskyj's trip to Poland. What is behind it...
What was it? And what does Kiev need it for anyway? There will be no borders. Well, there will be no borders....
I will present... I will present my point of view...
I will present my point of view and the point of view of the experts who have studied in detail in Ukraine what it was. 
Yes.
First of all, it is a public trip, in public with everybody. He had never traveled so publicly. Woman, there, meeting and so on, announced. This indicates that there will be more public actions in this area. Which ones? All of them talk about that they all tend to a confederation, a Rzeczpospolita (Poland-Lithuania = Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth), a confederation (Unia). And then there is a third country. It is Lithuania.
...a third country. It's Lithuania. And somehow so surprising that there are elements that confirm this direction. Ukraine and Lithuania said in unison: guys, why should we learn Russian? We're going to learn Polish in school, right? How coincidental. 
Good.
...Although Latvia banned the Russian language altogether. Banned and that's it, and that's Polish. The second. Selenskyj meets with mayors of border towns. 
Yes.
There is no problem there. Why? Because the refugees are Ukrainians too.
...Because the refugees are Ukrainians too. They are everywhere in Poland, especially in the center. And there are no problems. But these problems will arise in the future, when they start to unite the confederation. Yes? 
Who will take over the leadership? Who? Who? Who?
Of course, according to the confederation...  
Selenskyj?
No. According to the confederation (Unia), it's the Poles. The Poles, yes. 
No, Zelenski thinks it's him. 
No.
That's...
That's why I want to... That's why I want to understand why Selenskyj needs it, when it seems clear to everybody,
The thing is that this...
...that in the implementation of this...
