...To the guys who are now at the front, visit our comrade in arms and brother Apti. We have watched a video in which the boys ask for an ammunition. We have already agreed that Achmat will hand over more than 100 mines of 120 millimetres; what they have in stock.
What we have in reserve, we will hand over everything. Not just mines, but anything we can help with, because we know that PMC "Wagner" - these are the fighters who are trying to...
...the fighters who try to do their best. They are the true patriots, the true men. Of course, I realise that 100 minutes is not the solution to the problem, unfortunately. But it will be, as they say, our gift for the fireworks that you will make in the area where the boys are working. So, boys, we will try again later to help in any way we can. 
Was it American enemies.
Was it American enemies who tried to send you to the afterlife, or was it their own internal scumbags who are jealous of your success?
That too, as they say, will probably be sorted out by the relevant authorities. We shall hope so. It is already normal. All the more I must say that a comrade in arms has come here. As they say, a person who is a patriot of Russia and does everything in his power. He has brought me a combat sledgehammer, like....
...a combat sledgehammer [brought], like PMC "Wagner". Now I have a service combat sledgehammer. And there's also, how do you say, an award from your boss himself.
[xxx]...Well, you're just a fool, damn you, [xxxxxxxx] Just disgusting!
Listen, if you're going to tell the truth, you'll be poisoned too. Watch out, brother! Ha-ha-ha.
I have also been shot many times, I think undermined. Shamil Basayev personally sent squads to kill me three times. Doku Umarov personally put me on the list of personal enemies. But excuse me, no one has ever thought of sending a letter about the sergeant service. So, brother, it's even more dangerous here. 
I am, merely... This letter is already in the investigating authorities, so....
... this letter, so there it's not clear, was it a greeting from the Promenade on 23 February or from the American State Department? 
Basically yes, you have to consider where it came from exactly. 
Well, of course, [xxxxxxxx] on the promenade.
There you see how it is. In a couple of days, I think I'll be there. Basically, with me, they've already finished cleaning it. So something bromtzian or something, bromtzian....
...zian or something, some bromtzian. They found it, bromentzian, and they say some yet other substance, they can't pinpoint it. 
Dim, I think this bromzian is what they are trying to put in everybody in our country now, so that everybody will not have normal potency anymore, so that everybody will be castrated. They tried to give him this substance, he took it, the poison, and he spat out this substance.
We cannot be castrates because....
We cannot be neuters because....
[ххх]...Back then, in the Soviet army, we were fed bromine so that we wouldn't get an erection. Shit, damn it!
You see, but we are not yet.... ...We're not Euromode fools, so we'll be fine.
