Hello, Yevgeny Viktorovich!
What, are you from the Belgorod and Kursk regions?
Yes! (That's right!)
All right. Sit down! I can't see anyone else. Everything flies to the Belgorod region and the Kursk region, yes? 
There is such a thing.
What will you do? What thoughts do you have? The best thoughts always come from below. 
There must be a status.
Absolutely right. There has to be a status.
That's the most important thing because....
And there must be a machine gun in hands.
Yes, because...
...a machine gun in hands.
Yes, because even as members of the Territorial Defence, here we got practice rifles, 
all sawed through. They are issued against 10 signatures.
Yes,
And you watch, God forbid, you go somewhere with something so you don't leave.
All right. So it's clear that training submachine guns are the same as issuing a broad for training.
Well, that's about it. The problem is that even now they're not allowed to be transported to the training site in their own transport to get them to the site.
So it's clear, you're like an entrepreneur if you're....
...entrepreneur, if you had a conditional base for four people, you would go there yourself every day at your leisure, right?
Absolutely right.
You would organise everything and spend all your free time with them.
Absolutely right.
You would have a healthy, well-fed family, right? 
Yes. 
And the area would be secure. 
The man walked away from his family, from his children.
So without the basic documents to rely on, without the basic documents, you can do absolutely nothing.
So, sure. And for the witnesses, it's just more bureaucracy just to tick a box.... 
Absolutely right. Of course.
... ...just to tick a box to leave the country.
There are many men in Belgorod who are willing to organise themselves, but we are really prevented from doing so. If you can, please contribute. We have prepared everything.
That is why I have come with you, to receive from you.
The border areas have been shelled several times, just shelled several times. People are trembling, children are worried, wives are worried. 
We have a lot of bureaucracy, a lot, a lot.
We have to do it safely.
Of course. And after the Khokhlys go off, the DRGs [Sabotage and Reconnaissance Group] will be closer.... 
...The DRGs already get closer in, then it's unclear what's going to happen there, right? 
That's the thing. Just the other day...
The wife went into the shop, hit a DRG or.... 
She got killed and everything. And the kid.
Grandpa took it very much to heart.
We got a certificate now, Assistant DND, that is, it was developed in our happy Soviet years, and now they issue it. And what powers? There are no powers!
No, it is written that you should wear the uniform.
Yes, wear uniform, and that's all , and that's all. Those are the basic things to start with.
These are the basic things to start with. We have people who want to, but everything is at a standstill just because of that.
Time is running out.
People's confidence has to be there.
Generally, everything should come from the bottom.
Of course. I say the authorities should have confidence in the people. 
Yes. Yes. Yes.
No, we even raised the issue, we are ready to pass the commission. As if, guys, you don't trust, but we are not idiots.
Well, that's clear. You have to sign all the rules.
Yeah. Like there's no questions.
And one question: the administration is not solving the problems with the employers at all. The guys...
...doesn't solve the problems with the employers at all. The boys come here at their own risk.
All right.
This is just the weekend and that's all.
Some are dismissed, some are dismissed after a trip here when he comes to learn something, to protect his home. 
But the most important thing is, what tactics do they, the Ukrainians, have now? Everyone is thinking there in Moscow, in the Kremlin, there on Rublevka, everything is good there, that's why.... How are they [in Moscow] thinking there? That they [the Ukrainians] will not come. How can they [the Ukrainians] not come? 
They are already coming. They are already coming in.
First of all. And secondly, we did go. How are they different from us? 
They do...
...How are they different from us? 
They're already going in. Here it's Schebekino, which is shot at without end. And there regularly...At my locksmith, here the borders, exactly this thing, Ukrainian trenches. And they are 200-300 meters, their house. They already go in and out. 
Thank you very much that such company "Wagner" gives us, simple men, an opportunity to receive training. 
Yes, thank you very much.
If you get real submachine guns, not the slotted ones.
The guys are good, the instructors are with us, they pull our nostrils.
Well, that's right.
That's right.
So that's all.
With joint efforts.   
Zhenya's happy. 
All right, guys, take care. 
Goodbye. Thank you.  Goodbye.